Electricals where necessary.
[UNCLEAR] you ask them to bring My spectacles.
- Yeah, I, I came along for about now last night
- Little loudly
- Oh, sorry. I came along for that now last night. There were just a few things that I want to clarify with You.
- Umm, this is Your fifth time here in Australia, is it right?
- No, no. This is, I think, fourth time.
- Fourth time. Right
- Yes
- And how did you find last night, how did it go?
- For Canberra it's very good, I must say.[SHRI MATAJI LAUGHS]
- Yeah. More people than you thought of.
Everywhere else much more. I think we must have had about one thousand two hundred or so in Sydney
Right, right, okay. Just a few things like on the health aspect You talking about
I wonder if you could define your creative yoga a bit more for me.
- Little loud
- I wonder if you could define your creative yoga a bit more - I was talking to a few people afterwards
- that time. [UNCLEAR] forms of yoga. I wonder if You could explain for me because I didn't quite understand
Your, Your actual philosophy.
See, sahaja yoga - 'saha' means with, 'ja' means born,
'yoga' means union with the Divine Power. So, born with you, every human being,
is the right to be united to this Divine Power
which is a subtle power that governs
this Universe, looks after all the living processes, evolutionary processes,
balancing. This power, nourishes
as well as guides us and could be called as the Collective Unconscious -
little narrow but that's what it is. So we have to be connected with it directly.
Apart from it it thinks, organizes and also it loves.
So to get connected with it, is the last breakthrough of our evolution and that has to be achieved.
So we become sages and this
was known to many people thousands of years back
but it could not be achieved because people were not matured enough to receive it, perhaps.
But in modern times it is already prophesized that this is going to happen
and this happening is taking place where human awareness gets connected with this
power by which it  achieves a new dimension of Collective Consciousness
on their Central Nervous System. On our finger-tips we have
- the sympathetic nervous system endings - that much the doctors have gone into,
- Yeah, yeah, You explained that last night.
- Yeah.
If You could just get away from that though, like how have You actually practiced the creative yoga?
- How do You teach people to practice?
- Oh! First of all you have to get connected,
-  first of all. The con..
- [UNCLEAR -HOW DOES THAT HAVE TO BE?]
- That's so spontaneous is
I give an analogy to make you understand that if you have a seed,
you put it in the Mother Earth, it, it sprouts - it's a living process
or we can say that, if one light is enlightened, that can enlighten another light.
So now supposing, I'm enlightened and if I enlighten you, you can enlighten another person.
- But how're You going to enlighten me?
- Just if you put your hands towards Me, you can get enlightenment.
So simple as that and that works. You know, one radio station
in New Zealand [UNCLEAR- GENTLEBER?] is supposed to be Doctor of Philosophy
and he was asking Me question - quite skeptical fellow - and suddenly he started feeling the cool breeze on his hand.
He said, he suddenly forgot what question he asked Me. He said, "Oh, look at this! What is happening to my hand!
There's a cool breeze, " and then he said, "but not in my head." So I gave him a little balance
and raised his Kundalini and then he said, "Yes, on my head, " and then he said, "There's a ball
ball of Kundalini, ball of cool breeze in my hand. Just a ball, see there's a ball in."
And that's all on the tape, you see. So it happened.
And he said, "I'm the, I'm such a doubting person, I'm so skeptical, I never believe into these things how did I get it?"
- I said, "You were just ready for it, that's all."
- But how do you deal with, with people that are skeptical? I mean
- How do you do
- How do you deal with people that are skeptical of what You teach?
I know how to answer them, that much I know.
- What if I say to You that I'm skeptical about it? How will You answer me?
- Yes, yes but you see what I'm saying supposing
whatever I am telling you, you must have an open mind. You must have an open mind of a scientist
as think it to be a hypothesis for yourself. You need not accept Me because blind faith is not needed. Actually blind faith is more dangerous.
- If an atheist is there, better.
- more dangerous.
- Yes, because they are bound by that. They have some blind faith, they have their own concept about truth,
so they're more bound than the people who do not believe into anything. That's what has happened in Russia. They, they're the ones who got it first.
- What you mean what
- because they, they have no conditionings, they have no conditionings and so many got, thousands and settled down into it.
- How do you say that they had no conditionings?
- No conditionings of any kind. So if there's blind faith it doesn't work out so well
but if you keep your mind open like a scientist, then this is a hypothesis I put before you
so why not get it because you don't have to pay, don't have to do anything - just works out. If that is your own power, why not get it?
It's sensible and logical, isn't it?
But how do You work out, how do You get it out of Yourself? Like there's people that were last night what if they would have come away from there?
Now they have come away, now we have a center here, luckily, in Canberra, they can come to the center
- and these people are very well equipped, they can tell them.
- You have a yoga center here in..
- Yes, we have. We have a very nice center here,
- and very nice people. Some have come from England and some are here -
they can work it out, so there's no problem on that.
And the, the yoga center You've got here, how many people are involved in that?
- Very bad at accounts, I don't know.
- [UNCLEAR - TWENTY MATAJI, TWENTY?]
- In Canberra we have the minimum number
- We have regular programs.
- I've never been to Canberra before - this is the first time I've been.
- You have not been to Canberra before?
- For the first time in Canberra.
And how did You do all this? Like You probably explained last night, but on if you could just explain again how You actually came
- to yoga or it came to You, like how You started on this, this journey of?
- How I started?
- Umm
- Mean, I was, I, I was born realized, I should say.
I knew all about this Myself but I knew also that I have to find out a method which will give enmasse realization.
Formerly there used to be one or two people getting realization - very few
but I knew that I have to work out some method so, I studied the
subtle problems that lies
in every human-being and I met many people like that and I tried to find out what is the way
one can work out that they can get enmasse  realization - you see, the permutations and combinations, if you can work it out.
and then I discovered it's not so difficult.
Uh.. on the 5th May 1970
the last center was opened out and that's how it started working because that's the only center is closed in human-beings,
the seventh one which is here and that opened out and I started working from 1970.
- I started with one lady
- What do You mean You started with?
Started means, I call, there was one lady who was interested in it, she came to Me and I worked on her.
It worked, then we had twenty-five people more
because you see, as soon as somebody gets realization, the news spreads.
There's a very big thing for Indians to get realization. They think that's the highest thing to have.
So the news spread and so many people came. First I got one lady, then twenty-five of them. They all used to come to My house to begin with.
And now, then I started moving about. My husband got elected to a job in
London. He became the Secretary-general of International Maritime Organization in the U.N.
So I went to England and the work started in England and England being a circulation of all the countries
from England people started spreading out and now we are
working in forty nations, sahaja yoga.
- And You're talking about the Russian situation.
- Annh
- Do You feel that Your creative yoga has, has made them more happy and healthy or
Yes, of course. There're two types of Russias. One type which is, I would not say,
so evolved - they're like uh..dishwashers and sort of people who are
taxi drivers or things like that. So they care more for say, Russian cigarettes, American cigarettes and things like that
but the rest of Russians are very well-educated, very capable and very well-read and extremely wise
- It seems to be a lot of them that are wanting to leave the country though if they're so happy and healthy they
- They're not happy
- They're not?
- They are not happy because they said that they didn't find their spirit - this part of the this area.
And the rest of them, they are materialists, so they can never be happy. Anywhere in the world materialist can never be happy
because materialism never gives you happiness. Materialism takes you from one matter to another -
- you go on jumping, as I told you yesterday that it's Economics.
- How do You, how do You do with that in
a Western civilization like this which is based on materialistic possessions, I mean
You see, they, because they were put on the materialistic achievements - you see, that's how the theory started there
and so they said no God, nothing, no religion, nothing of the but they saw through it that materialism doesn't give you joy.
So they didn't waste their time in politics, gossip, this, that nonsense. They were busy finding out
where does lie the joy and so they have read a lot and they know a lot.
Somehow, they were just ready, I think.
Must be some blessings - I don't know what, how to explain really, because so wonderful they're, very wonderful people.
And this problem of this food and all that started by there more, bureaucrats.
It's not true that there's no food - food was there but the unhappiness came from the fact that they were seeking their Spirit.
- Seeking their Spirit.
-  Their Spirit, you see. They were thinking, joy is beyond. I have visited Russia before
so there's no inflation and no, you can say,
problems of mugging or anything - no violence, very peaceful and sufficiently enough.
Clothes, they wear very good clothes and there everything is available at a very cheap price.
Only thing they felt, they have no freedom within themselves to speak about everything and that's how they went inside
their being - they became introverts. Started finding out what's the matter, what, what should we have and that's how they found out, I think,
uh.., a state of mind which was just ready to get realization.
Umm, it seems with other forms of yoga they, it's much more subtle, more private way of practicing yoga
just seems that. I can't see what You teach people
- as far as relaxation and the other forms of yoga is supposed to.
- No mam, this is the most open science
They have just like say, Transcendental meditation - is a horrible stuff. They just give you a mantra without telling you why this mantra,
how this mantra according to age and when I discovered they were funny mantras, in Sanskrit they have no meaning.
In our ordinary words they said - one was 'Inga'.
Inga means bite of a scorpion, Pinga means when a person gets uh..
possessed, the round and round it goes - a person goes round, that's Pinga
and Thinga means when you show your thumb to somebody - like this you show him down. So this sort of nonsense and for that people paid
three, three hundred pounds for this and for this another thing that they had
is a 'Sidhdhi Course' where they said you'll be floating in the air - I don't know what's the need for doing that
but still, for that uh.. I got the person who was running it
in [UNCLEAR - RUNOCK OR RUDDOCK?], in Scotland, Mr. Peter Pears. He, his wife, his daughter
and his deputy director, all got epilepsy - they came to see Me and they told Me the whole story about it.
Now, he's writing a book what all had happened. And they had put all their money - he was a diamond merchant, his wife was a
granddaughter of a duke - all the money to start this. And they were told that you have to make them jump on the
uh.. foams, these people and tell them this is the mantra they have to say and they will start floating.
Gradually they found out it's all fake
and so they stopped sending money to them, gradually they and these people became broke.
They had nothing left with them and he had to go back to South Africa
because he was declared as a person, bankrupt.
And now there are many cases running, in America, saying that their bottoms are broken with the Sidhdhi course.
And six thousand pounds they took from each person to go to Switzerland
where they gave for six days, the water which has boiled potatoes. And the seventh day
they gave them the rind to eat and the eighth day that potato.
And said that you have to take this if you have to do the Sidhdhi course and people accepted.
There is a lady, who is a barrister, she did it, her sister did it - her sister ended up in a lunatic asylum.
She came to sahaja yoga - now both of them are all right.
Oh, with so many other like, people that have their own formulas about what's, what's good for you and what's right for you, I mean
- how, how do we know that Your way is  any way better than anybody else?
- You see, only way is to know first of all that you can't pay for anything like that -
first, as Christians you should know because Christ never took any money.
Nobody can pay for that. Of course now if I travel - first, in the beginning I used to pay Myself
and now, of course they are self-respecting people so they pay for My travel and also
here say, supposing you take a hall, you can pay for the hall - they don't pay Me but they pay for the hall or they pay to the travel agent
but you can't pay for My lectures and you can't pay for My uh.. work which I'm doing
of Self-realization - you can't pay because it's a living process, cannot pay for it.
All these yogas are money-making propositions, just money-making.
But this is the point which
people go against sahaja yoga that how can it be without money - they don't want to accept that point
but in U.S.S.R. this is the point that hit them because they knew you cannot pay for living process.
They came to sahaja yoga after reaching a certain maturity in it so they just jumped at it.
They understood it. But here, even you'll be surprised, as I told yesterday, that in Boston they asked Me, "How many Rolls Royces You have?"
I said, "How can I have Rolls Royces when I don't take any money?"
So they said, "We can't understand sahaja yoga because unn..it is no business."
Even in BBC London, you'll be surprised, BBC London man came to see Me
and he said, "Anglo-Saxon brain cannot understand anything without money."
I said, "I'm sorry, I can't make you understand, I will not go on your London BBC."
If that is the Anglo-Saxon brain, who has made it?
Is it a special type? This kind of a queer idea that you have to pay for everything,
I think it's a subtle ego that you can purchase everyone, you can purchase your guru, you can purchase Christ also. And then they did sell Him, didn't they?
- What about people that keep to the church may not be [UNCLEAR]
- I mean, if they want to go to church I don't want to stop them
but if they think they have not achieved anything in the church, they better come to sahaja yoga because Christ has said that , "You're to be born again."
- He has said,"You have to seek yourself."
- If You don't charge for anything like when on Your tours, I mean obviously
- You have to live on something
- No, it's My husband is very well paid. I don't have to
So, if You're married, if You are in that situation, how would You go about then?
Well, see for such a person there's always a provision. You should live with whatever you have.
Now see Christ, Christ was the son of a carpenter. If I was a poor person, I would have lived like a poor person.
What does it matter? It's nothing important. You have to seek the comfort of your, of your Spirit and not of your body.
Even now, where I come from a rich family from My father's side also and from husband's side but I can sleep anywhere, I can
live anywhere, I can eat anything - I've no problem.
- Just coming back to the health aspect of
- Umm..
- Just coming back to the health aspects of the yogies
- Yeah, yeah, yeah, hmm..
- Umm.  You practice yoga Yourself?
- Oh, I need not
- Sorry?
- No, I don't practice anything
- because I'm just in it, I've everything, I've reached a stage where I don't have to practice
- but You're talking last night about how it cures
- Yes, Yes, yes. That for you people, that, that curing works for you people because your Kundalini has to be risen
- When the
- I'm sorry
- Kundalini is the source, we can say, is the power
- which gives you Self-realization. You were there yesterday or not, is the point?
- Yes, I was.
Did you hear Me about the Sacrum bone and there's a power. That power is the Kundalini which has to rise.
And when it rises, it nourishes your subtle center - is your own power.
- What does Kundalini mean though? What, what is the
- Kundalini is the, is the, is an energy within you
- And where does it get there from?
- Beg your pardon.
- Why is it called that, where is it come from?
- Come from? It is placed there.
in you, like, just like a connection, this one. This is to be connected to the mains, isn't it, otherwise this doesn't work.
In the same way, it's coiled up and kept in the triangular bone and it rises within you
and once it rises, it pierces through this fontanel bone area and connects you to the
All-Pervading power about which I was telling you and as a result of that it passes through six subtle centers,
it nourishes those centers, integrates them and that's how automatically you get well.
Did you have some questions?
Think, [UNCLEAR N INAUDIBLE]
[UNCLEAR N INAUDIBLE]
- What's he saying?
- I was asking, I didn't want to monopolise the
No, no, no, it's good [UNCLEAR]
- Beg your pardon. Little loudly.
- We have a music program at 2XX community radio and
- [UNCLEAR]
- Can't hear. You see, I've little difficult for being your
- Australian English.
- I think the lady's interview is a little different from what we actually [UNCLEAR]
- Oh, I see. She's different.
- Basically music
- Hmm, hmm
and I think, we're out to more, to find out little bit more about [UNCLEAR] introduction
rather than this topic [UNCLEAR] this lady
These musicians, all of them, are so young you must have seen and one is a blind fellow and with realization they became so dynamic.
So now, they want to play for Me and sing for Me because they got it, you see.
And the one who has composed it was a chartered accountant. In never knew any Urdu or any,
I mean, poetical language but he's become a poet.
- Okay, with that, that, what do You mean, I think so may be... Thank You!
- Thank you very much!
- Yesterday you saw so many lifted their hands and said they got it. So many were there, did you see that?
- No.
You did see that part. Yesterday there were so many people  who said they have got their realization.
I wish you could show her that, what happened yesterday so she will see that - there were so many.
I was surprised because bureaucrats are difficult. I'm sorry
- I'm
- Why don't you come here?
- Here I am
I think I should explain what we are about, how we have a community radio
- to XX
- Hmm
-  which is a public fund radio program
- Haan, haan
- A program's covers
all various things. Now Hashim - I want to introduce Hashim here. He is a
- he has a nightly, Sunday night radio program of Indian music
- I see
and what I would actually like to ask You [UNCLEAR - MORE OR LESS?] an introduction
- so I can find out little bit more about You and who You are etc. I think I'll almost find
- Introduction to this music?
- Yes, sort of, that sort of thing.
- The music was
- No, no, no not to music but just a sort of fit You in,
- to introduce our listeners to You, that sort of interview.
- I see.
- so it's not
- So first I've to talk about, you want Me to talk about music
- Basically a, no I would like to find out where You came from
- and that sort of thing, general interest because our listeners don't know You at this stage, you see.
- All right.
- It's a
so I guess basically that was all about You so [UNCLEAR] but now I would welcome You to, to XX and have
- have a bit of a talk where You born and under what signs and
- All right, about Myself
- I believe, yes, I believe there was a
significant sign which You born under
-  and You born [UNCLEAR]
- It was on a Tropic of Cancer I was born
- Hmm
- There're very few places on Tropic of Cancer.
- Yeah
- One of them is Mecca
- There is some significance of the planets?
- Yes, planets are very much there. I was born on 21st March, equinox, 12 0'clock in the daytime.
- Yes
- You know they have cast My horoscope also - suggestive of lots of things
- Hmm, so can we sort of start this out by
- by doing some sort of a production [UNCLEAR]
- Wherever you say. You can ask Me questions, if you want
- Yeah, this is a Hashim
- Hashim is our, the program
- Yes, I, I observed last night that musicians
assisted in making the atmosphere wonderful. Do You think that the music is
important in making the Kundalini rise in meditation or in sahaja yoga?
Yes it's a devotional music and a musical, devotional music if is sung by people who are realized souls,
reaches your heart, reaches your Kundalini also
and helps a lot to awaken them. To if there are - these are all realized souls who were there, the dancers, everybody.
The dancer was playing the rhythm and the rhythm is, is a Divine rhythm because she's now become
a realized soul - she's connected with the Divine. So when she dances, she creates a Divine rhythm
and when these people sing, they also sing a Divine devotion otherwise, without connection if you sing
the praise of God, it doesn't reach God because you're not connected. Like a telephone which is not connected, if you start
telephoning, your telephone gets spoiled. So, for Devotion also you should be connected with God. So as they are connected with the Divine,
the music emits vibrations,
what you call the Divine vibration. As a result it creates an atmosphere for people to receive their realization.
It become much easier for Me to give realization because the atmosphere cleanse, cleanses out
and people also get ready for realization - because they're realized souls, all of them.
So this is the reason why uh.. I was very happy they could manage to come - they're all professionals
and they have agreed to come here and do it for a, just to help Me in sahaja yoga.
And also you'll be surprised that this music is very difficult - Indian music is a very difficult music.
It's not easy for people to sing unless and until you go into big practices.
But is so amazing that when people get realization, all these people who are Westerner people
from forty countries - they all can sing these songs with same depth and with same understanding,
without making any mistakes even in pronunciation, otherwise it is so difficult to pronounce Sanskrit
Even Indian languages, so difficult that they could not even pronounce one sentence properly.
And now, the whole song, Sanskrit song, any song they sing so well
and you, if you close your eyes, you won't believe that they're foreigners who are singing, who have never known this language before.
So something has gone dynamically new in them that they just pick it up and sing so well.
So which You consider that music has become part of the meditation that they [UNCLEAR]
Of course, very much. Music is, is, is a Divine gift to human-beings, it's a Divine gift.
We call it, it starts with Onkara means the first word as that was, we call it logos - you see, it starts with that.
And that's, that's the proof of it because when they get their realization, how is it they know such difficult language
and such difficult tunes and so correctly that they can sing - it's very surprising.
So music is a very inner part, dancing, music - all art is very much connected with the Divine.
Now we have had many artist who have been realized souls - we can say, Michelangelo was a realized soul
and the way he painted his - it emits vibrations.
You see, if you see uh.. Mona Lisa done by Leonardo da Vinci,
it has vibrations, it gives you vibrations. Uh..
those people who were realized souls, like Mozart, when you play Mozart, you get vibrations out of it.
You can feel them, on your finger-tips you can feel them. So there are musicians who are realized souls.
Also artists, also people
like Abraham Lincoln was a  realized soul, Gorbachev is a realized soul, he's also a sage.
So when these people are there, how will you make them out? As she was asking Me - you have to just put your hands towards them and you can feel it.
I think, basically we still getting back to 2, XX program
I really want to, more or less, interview You as a person who's just come in this studio
- and welcome You to the 2, XX program
- All right
- and then just ask You
- how Your birth etc
- Yeah, yes all right.
- Can we do that?
- All right.
- From start. Hashim,
- Yes
- can we do that?
-Yeah.
- So, a basic
- I would like you [UNCLEAR] glasses.
- Is it alright?
- Yeah.
Welcome to 2 XX Shri Mataji
Nirmala Devi. I forgot the name right, pronunciation
- Uh.. May I call You Mother?
- Thank you very much.
- Mother, You are
- were born under very unusual sign,
- Yeah, you say so
- could we
- Yes
I was born in a place called Chhindwara which is on the
- Tropic of Cancer
- Hmm
- and it's a hill-station.
- Hmm, hmm
I was born in a family, which was in ancient times, was a royal family and they have a calender
also, which is even now used in India, in the Southern part of India,
called as Shalivahanas. They ruled in a
country now called as Maharashtra, also up to the Southern areas
and also in the Northern areas. But later on gradually it
subsided because of certain earthquakes and certain floods that came in.
- When did You actually start the sahaja yoga?
- I started it
in 1970, 5th May - the last center was opened out and that's how I started
- after that, I should say.
- Is the sahaja yoga based on Your experienced philosophy?
- Based on?
- Your experienced philosophy
- Yes, of course. We had sahaja yoga since long
- Thousands of years back people have written about it
- Yeah
- that it's just through sahaja only you get it.
Don't, Sahaja also means easy - by not doing anything. Sahaja means spontaneous, actually, in English language.
So, it just get you spontaneously but for that you have to have a person who is authorized by the Divine
and you must have the seeker of truth who should get it. So, it was only one or two persons used to get it
Patanjal yoga, the whole thing, which is, now from which people have taken out Hatha yoga -
they don't do Hatha yoga. Hatha yoga is, 'Ha' is the right side and 'Tha' is the left side.
Means, you have to have the working on both the sides, that is on your emotions as well as on your uh
mental activities. So it is not that way, it is just works on one side, it is just a physical activity.
So that is not, that's just a wee part of the whole of Patanjali who wrote about it.
He had written eight things about it and sahaja yoga is crossing all other things and comes to the
stage where it is called samadhi, means awareness - it just works on awareness.
So the modern sahaja yoga that I have started is a sahaja yog in which we first, somehow or the other, give you realization.
So you get into one more stage called as thoughtless awareness which is called as Nirvichar samadhi.
One that state is established you start seeing what's wrong with you, yourself and then you start correcting yourself - I don't have to tell you
don't do this, don't do that - you just start correcting yourself. Then the second stage you achieve which is called
as Nirvikalpa samadhi which is doubtless awareness because you become absolutely sure of yourself -
that's a state again you achieve. That's how one achieves a very great state of spiritual ascent
which Christ has said that, "You're to be born again," or "Know yourself". With this, your hands start speaking
as said by Koran that, "Your hands will speak," and that you start feeling on the finger-tips
all the centers that you have within yourself, so you know about yourself - also you can feel the centers of others.
But now, if you know how to decode them and to find out how to correct them, you can correct any center.
- And You are Doctor of Medicine and Psychology
- No, I wouldn't say that because in I never practiced anything but I did study Medicine.
- In your studies [UNCLEAR]
- [UNCLEAR] Oh God!
- I studied Medicine, I had to also study little bit of Psychology because I had to talk to Psychologist and I had to talk to doctors
- so I wanted to know their terminology what it is.
- And you also was born a Christian?
- Yes, I was born in a Protestant Christian family
- Do You also practice that religion?
- No, I mean it's all, this is real Christianity.
- I see, so the yoga is actually a religion
- Real Christianity because you get the actualization, your baptism.
- Yeah
- It's nothing artificial in it.
- I see.
- You know that Christ was the Son of God through only sahaja yoga
- Yeah
-  because there is a center within you
where you have an optic chiasma, in that resides Christ which is the cross.
And because of His resurrection we can resurrect, so it is the gate. And then
- Beg your pardon.
- How did You receive the message to start the yoga?
- I knew all these things
- I knew all this
- So it just didn't come to You as a?
- No, it doesn't come, it's all there.
- It has been with You all Your life right through
- Beg your pardon?
- Right through Your life it's a, You've known
-  that one day You would be doing this sort of a preaching or making this sort of movement similar to
- this
- What is it? I
- All Your life You would more or less knew that this would be
Yeah, yeah I knew. Only problem was, you see, I knew all about it, I knew that all religions are integrated,
Christ has said that, "Those who are not against us are with us, " I knew all of them, everything I knew but the problem was
I didn't want to talk about it, I didn't want to do anything about it because I thought I must find out an en masse realization method
otherwise, you see, if you give realization to one person, people get after that person.
See everybody was tortured. Mohammad sahab was given poison, uh.. Christ was crucified,
uh.. everybody was tortured - every saint was tortured. So I thought we should give it to so many people -
we have to create a new race now of realized souls, then they will understand.
- But You still believe in God?
- Of course, God is there, without God nothing can be done. God is there, I'm just doing the work of God only.
- Hmm.
He wants you to enter into His Kingdom, I'm just working it out that you all enter into His Kingdom and enjoy Him.
- Of course.
- Yeah well, wish You happy stay!
- Beg your pardon?
- I wish You happy stay!
- Thank you.
- And I guess You'll be back sometime.
- It should be..
- next year?
I hope next year I'll be here, I hope so
and I'll work it out - I've been working for so many years now, now I'm 67 years of age already
and I hope some more years I would be able to spend to travel around. There's so many nations I have to travel though all the time I'm travelling.
- Thanks very much!
- Thank you.
- Is it alright?
- Hmm, haan [UNCLEAR]
- Little bit you'll have to cut out because I couldn't hear. You see,
since yesterday My head has is little bit too much uh.. has been going on everyday morning, evening and
no rest, sleeping at 3 o'clock, getting up 5 o'clock, so it's little bit today My head is
- I think You should
- little bit wobbly, I should say
- I think You might have something [UNCLEAR] and get off with the [UNCLEAR]
- Beg your pardon?
- The cold here
- Yeah, also I got cold because uh.. here women smoke so much and they smoked on My face, you see.
- Smoking is so much here still, I mean, must stop that, so much smoking.
There's something has happened, I don't know if you'll believe it or not but I went down to Cairns and - is she that Kay?
- [UNCLEAR]
- Just let her get - and they took Me down to that reef, you see
they were telling Me about these crown thorns and things like that
we just went round, you see, must the vibrations must have spread and suddenly they all have left now - they don't know, mysteriously.
They were eating all these uh..corals - all of them have left suddenly - the paper it has appeared
on the 17th. I was there on the 8th I reached there, 8th to 10th and
we just went round and I was just, and in the area where we went it has happened.
- [INAUDIBLE]
- Yeah.
- Would You say there was a miracle and all?
- Beg your pardon?
- Would you call that a miracle?
No it's not a miracle because vibrations are there, you see, the Divine vibrations - they give a balance, they destroy all such things automatically.
So, because I went there, the vibrations must have spread, I think so that must have happened. It has happened, so many things have happened.
- Have you got that thing? I want them to see.
- Yes, Shri Mataji.
-  Yes please
So she came from Cairns and she brought it to show it to Me but when we were coming from New Zealand they announced it as a big news
in the aero, in the aeroplane that this is what has happened.
Yes, thank you.
- I [UNCLEAR]
- [INAUDIBLE N UNCLEAR]
Also it helps, vibrations help your uh.. plants very much. There's one gentleman called Dr. Hamid,
he has solved the problem of acid rain, in Austria, by giving vibrations
All the trees which were uh..
below 60 years, all were saved and doing very well - so he said we can solve that problem also.
Also agriculture can improve, many a times. We can use non-hybrid seeds, vibrate them
and you can get tremendous effect of it. I have done that and we got beautiful rice in our house
uh.. just in 1 acre I got, out of 60 kilos I got 1400 kilos of rice.
So, I mean, it just changes the whole atmosphere, everything changes. You saw that?
I have got to ask You one question for the radio show.
- Shri Mataji would You give advice for the listeners of this
- Uh..
- program? [UNCLEAR]
- You see, they can - yes it can effect them.
What they have to do, is to ask them to put their hands, uh.. when I'm speaking, both the hands towards the photograph,
if they have, but if they don't have the photograph, then they can just put it towards the radio, just towards the radio
and they'll get it. They should get it - if not once, twice, thrice they should try. If they tape it and they can
again play it and put their hands, they might get it. We tried that in Hong Kong - it worked, it did work.
Because even what I speak, has vibrations -
you see, they have vibrations. When you speak when you're realized you'll also have vibrations.
We've got photographs where all the sahaja yogies are sitting and on top of their heads is the light. There're so many miraculous photographs that you won't believe.
- You won't believe that there're such photographs are possible. We have any here - no?
- No, I have [UNCLEAR]
- Annh?
- I've got [UNCLEAR]
- Alright, you've got one. Hmm. Can you show them?
We have so many photographs even uh.. that shows light in My hand,
uh.. there's a Moon in, at My feet, they've got in My heart light, there's a light coming on My head -
I mean, all kinds, there's no end to it but that we don't show to anyone because nobody believes it.
So only the sahaja yogies who have done the photographs, they know that this is their's.
Very interesting!
And even, even recently My, from My head light is coming like this like a complete lotus.
- We have only one but we should have everywhere some photographs to show them.
- Yeah.
It would be a good idea but nobody would believe - I mean, you people seem to be quite receptive
so you will believe it but normally people don't believe it.
- Do You have many [UNCLEAR]
- They believe in God but they don't believe that God is miraculous.
- Hmm
- They believe in God, alright, there is God but they can't believe that God would be miraculous - that's the trouble, you see.
- Yeah
It's just their mental concept of God, "Oh, is there is God, we believe in God,"  - but what is that God is?
He's so Great! You could find one Richard?
- [UNCLEAR] A small boy got [UNCLEAR] but You can see that.
- Which one?
Oh! This is I'm standing in the sea - the heart there's light.
It's a little bit crinkled because due to holding.
- Yeah
- But, and it's this scores of autographs on it.
- Huh, scores, really!
I was talking to a German who has edited a lot of film of Shri Mataji
and he says that, "Above every 200 frames there is a, there we get one frame that's got light all over."
- No, but these Russians when they took the photographs, you see,
- Yes
-  they did the filming, for 10 minutes they have got one.
is full of lights and that's how they earned lot of money out of that in Russia and they came all the way
uh, to do our [ASIDE- YOU REMEMBER?] this time, all the way to India because they said, "We have never seen such a thing that without any
uh.. organizing any lights or anything, how we got light from You coming this way, that way and that was all in the film."
So the Russians were very much impressed. Also that has helped a lot for publicity. So they're just waiting there for Me.
In the West, I don't know, we have, we think too much, I think [UNCLEAR- WE'RE?]
we have ideas and they're not true. We must open our heads and see for ourselves -
whatever is the truth, we should accept because we talk of God, we'll read Bible, alright, we'll go to church this, that
but it's so superficial - God is so deep and once your depth is opened out, you can see all these things so clearly.
- He works, it's not a myth
- Hmm
- It's not a myth.
- Yeah, I think, we go [UNCLEAR]
- That's why I said it is real Christianity
- Yeah, yeah.
Ours is a Pauleen Christianity, Pauleen - Paul organized it. And so many have criticized - Khalil Gibran - I have seen,
there's another I wrote, saw a book about - Christ being in India
- and that gentleman has also criticized Pauleen Christianity and also
so many of them have said this is not real Christianity and is all Pauleen Christianity.
- You got something?
- [UNCLEAR - THIS ONE?]
- Yes, this one. This is in a village, these people have made.
- Sahaja Mataji
- Where is it?
- On the boat.
- Hain?
-  Was on the boat coming back from Green island.
- Why is this all on My head
- [UNCLEAR]
- [UNCLEAR] That can be challenged but other things. There's a light on My head. But there's some more must be
- They're getting  up from [UNCLEAR]
Actually that one of You near the boat, there was no light there at all.
All people sitting there but that light is on top of Shri Mataji's head. [UNCLEAR] just that light coming.
I mean the, you see, one wants to doubt, one can go on doubting, no end to it
but if you believe in God then God is a miracle [UNCLEAR]
But the miracles are not like this that the chair moves from here to there or you get something in your hand - that's not the miracle.
God is not interested in all these things or you jump in the air - what's the use?
- Hmm, yeah.
- All these funny ideas specially this TM is the most dangerous one.
Yesterday we had somebody from TM, two of them - absolutely they couldn't get realization and they end up as epileptic people.
There is no criticism of TM here - some must have done?
- Umm, I think, basically it's all over the world
- Everybody is afraid?
- Yeah, I think so.
- I am not afraid.
- Yeah
They have never, you see, I have been openly telling about them from 1970. Nobody has challenged Me, nobody has said anything.
In Canberra there're Mother, certain cells of stress managers to all the public servants
and they [UNCLEAR]  to public servants by giving lectures on stress management
and the government supports it by allowing them to go along. The same way they try to get into the health system
but the doctors threw them out because they knew that they were frauds and even then.
But you see, they'll discover it in no time. It happened also in London - people have discovered it. Now they're not allowed to do anything there
so now they have started a new theme that they'll do Ayurveda - herbal medicines and but for Ayurveda why do you want to go to them?
You can go directly to Ayurved. It's all money-making proposition, that's all - he has crores and crores of Rupees in India.
- I don't know how people believe him.
- Do You have any target at all?
- I have any?
- Target.
Are You so trying to develop everybody into
- What is that?
- Do You have a, a target? Are You trying to get a certain number of people in a certain [SHRI MATAJI LAUGHS]
- amount of time.
-  I mean whatever of the target in the Bible, we have already crossed it.
- So You're not trying to bring
- No, unlimited.
-  everybody?
- No, no.
- No.But according to John, I think, the target is over now. So now, we have to think about
something unlimited. I think, the Divine is anxious to get more and more people into it.
He's said it. He said 144 uh.. thousand but we have crossed that limit definitely.
- Yeah, well I think [UNCLEAR]
- But one must hurry up [SHRI MATAJI LAUGHS]
- But you see, they go to these gurus and things get so mesmerized, they can't leave it
and they also deal in the same way like this is bargain, you see - now make it cheaper for you, do this, do that
and people agree to such a thing.
They play these tricks just like our salesman do, they play some tricks - alright now, this is a bargain price if you want
uh..we'll charge you half, this that - that way, and people are really mad that they run into it
and when they suffer, then they say, "No, no that's not our responsibility, you're no good. Because you're so bad,
you're sinful, that's why you didn't get it." No responsibilty.
The laws are so funny but if you give somebody some money wilfully, nobody can challenge it why did you give.
It's cheating, complete cheating. There's one lady, she calls herself by Chidwilasananda,
she's a illegitimate daughter of Muktananda. She comes, she puts laser beam
and comes with a wand, you know, goes round like this and she mesmerizes people - people just get really so sick with her.
Once you have been to her, they get sick. And she came to Canada before I went there.
And then people challenged that, "Why did you not get income-tax from her." They said, "No, she, she came as an entertainer."
And there's a law - they know all the loop-holes of the law - there's a law in Canada that somebody comes as an entertainer,
he'll not be charged income-tax. So, they know all these things, they work it out that way.
It's a big racket and they never talk ill about each other. As Christ has said, "They will not talk against their own house." Satan will not... they never talk.
Nobody will say that this is wrong. "Oh, that's good, this is good, that good." Like this Chinmoy also - same fellow, same type.
There's big bribes he gave to people in UN, got into UN and I don't know what he's doing.
So many of them - I feel ashamed because I'm also an Indian but this kind of cheating they have done to so many people, I feel very sorry for it.
But also, people are also gullible and vulnerable. Already Christ has described about the fake people,
everybody has described, in India also they have described about it but I don't know still people take to them
so easily, they're so gullible.
- I find most people want a sign of some sort, some sort of a ritual [UNCLEAR]
- They have no signs, nothing. Signs are
- those who go to them are sick - they get cancer, they get all troubles
- Yeah.
See, what is the sign, they have no sign just - what signs they have like, they advertise very well, they have money to advertise or
- they make a big, what you call gimmick, some tricks - that's all.
- Yeah.
It's absolutely one thing is said that, "The one who makes you get to God
or the one who gives you realization, is the only one who is a real master."
It's said so clearly but they will never give you realization, never - that point they always miss out.
And somebody says, "You give me realization, " "You're not capable, you're useless."
They never say that, "We can give you realization."
And so many people have now come to us who went to drugs because of them. AIDS - this TM gives AIDS also.
All the people, so far, who came to us, were doing TM who got AIDS.
Because they started a new sort of a nonsense that men and women should not see each other, so they were kept in two compartments.
Naturally they developed all these bad habits and they got AIDS. These two persons who came to us even in Perth, had done TM.
- [UNCLEAR]
- So I think, if you are homosexual
plus you go to these TM or anything, it triggers it.
- You got them somehow [SHRI MATAJI LAUGHS]
- [UNCLEAR]
- That's the whole series
- That's the whole series. We have to get
- This is the first one we had in a village
That's an amazing one at [UNCLEAR]
This is a New Zealand girl, Cheryl, who did it. Now she is in uh.. Melbourne
- I was sitting next to her when she took it.
- Really? And all of you took photographs, nobody got it, it's only she.
I, I wasn't taking photographs but I remember the day it was. It was overcast and there was nothing above You, no awning or anything.
- [SHRI MATAJI LAUGHS] In that village what do you get.
- [UNCLEAR]
- It was a cloudy day so there was no sunshine or anything
- because I was sitting there - completely overcast day.
- Hmm.
- And when I stopped it.
- Yeah.
- Very well done, this one is!
It was an old village school, that's all.
- Shri Mataji, is this enough? We've shown them enough
- I was saying, now stop it now.
Is, do these aberrations actually
- appear on Your person
- Yes, on Me. Just some play of lights
- This one is also - I was going on a bullock-cart and suddenly this thing came up - [ UNCLEAR- CHANGED OR SHE'S] the whole thing completely.
- Camera picks it up
- Only photograph
Cameras are wonderful, I must say. Ordinary camera, even an ordinary camera sometimes gets it.
Depends on the person, I think. Like, we were sitting in Calcutta and there was a lady, she said, "Mother, I want one miraculous photograph."
And she got a Sun and the Moon behind My head. And there are others, so many others have taken photographs - there's nothing, only she has got it.
So, it just, I think, the person it depends on or the camera acts accordingly. Just imagine, a camera, which is an ordinary camera, gets these things.
- How do You explain it, do You consider that You have some
- Annh?
- unusual power at all
- You see, if you are that, you don't feel anything about it.
- Hmm
- If you're not, then people think.Like the Sun is there, so what?
Sun has got it's own powers - so what, nothing so great! If I've got My own powers, it's alright
but if you achieve it, then that's something great about it.
- [UNCLEAR] Your power [UNCLEAR]
- Annh, your pardon?
- Is Your power not attracted though?
-
- Not what power?
- An attracted power - power that's attracted to You.
- Attracted?
-  Is Your power, it's not something You're attracted to You?
No, no, no, no, I just emit, I just emit.
I don't attract any power. I just, haan of course, I mean, supposing if you have some troubles or something, that I absorb within Myself
- but I don't attract any power - I just emit.
- So You consider that light, it's actually coming from You rather than
- This is,
-  coming towards You?
- this is what is the Divine light which is trying to convince you people
- Hmm
- [SHRI MATAJI LAUGHS] Just to convince you, I think.
- Yeah
- [UNCLEAR] these tricks
- Very interesting, yeah!
- So many, I mean, if you see, there will be surprised.
- Hmm
This is so like the pictures of you see in the Bible of Christ with the Grace coming down
- Annh, when He was praying in the [UNCLEAR], yes.
- Yeah
- in the garden they show it. No some people did conceived it
because I've seen also some of the very old paintings where the Christians are standing like this -
the disciples of Christ and they, they're putting their hands like this and there's a light on their head, I've seen it.
And I've also seen some paintings with the light on the heart of Christ - I've seen such paintings.
So, I think, in their unconscious they saw all these things and they have painted it.
- Also in the sky -
- Yes, sky
- just tell them about that.
- [UNCLEAR] about here but there is a cloud pattern
in particular which is, you can actually see without any imagination - you can see Shri Mataji's face and all that.
That time I used to wear a diamond thing inside and even My teeth
and the gap between the teeth everything is so visible into that - it's, they saw it in the sky.
First, you see, the sky became very luminous and there was one, one sky,
one cloud became very luminous and the thread started coming out of that and then they weaved this thing
so they just took the photograph and it turned out to be My photographs - two, two photographs.
One is uh.. with that and one is where I look like a Red Indian sort, that is also [UNCLEAR]
- Shri Ganesha
-Yes, that that's the one, the first one started with but later on these two photographs came in out of that pattern.
That's how they got attracted otherwise nobody takes the photograph of the sky, so first to make them
feel attracted so first this luminous thing came in and it started weaving this and then they took the photograph, it was My photograph.
And in the village there's no question of this happening, you know, in a village - just took the photograph it came out like that.
The same thing about the [UNCLEAR] - the film is going through eighteen frames a second
- or twenty-four frames a second
- Twenty- four or twenty-five, I think.
- Yeah, twenty-four.
Now that means, that perhaps that light is showing for 1/24th of a second - we just simply can't see that.
- And that's how if somebody catches that, you get it.
- [UNCLEAR] camera
- Yeah
Yes, must be that. That, that split of a second, some people catch it and they get it.
I know, I mean I know this is all happening, I know, I see Myself but
the people don't see but after realization definitely you see two things - one thing you see those commas,
shining commas in the sky - that is the vibrations - and also you see
looped round, round things looped like that in the sky - they always used to ask Me, I said these are dead souls.
Now they have discovered. I said the soul is on your back in seven loops and it manifests
it's reflection on every cell there's a receptor.
So now they have discovered that every cell has a receptor which has got something
which has got seven loops they can't explain. And that the picture of that is exactly what you see in the sky.
Even to talk about dead soul is a very difficult thing in the West - they don't want to believe into anything.
Whatever is discovered through science, they want to believe but science has no humanity,
it has no art - it is so dry. Science is a wee part of the knowledge - we have to know so many other things.
This is how they have discovered now and thank God, those pictures he has sent to Me, exactly what you see.
So also it gives you a future plan in which direction to move for scientific approach.
Now there are three doctors who have got MD in India because they have seen
on twenty-five to thirty patients how sahaja yoga acts and cures them -
Psychosomatic also, which is the most difficult area - Psychosomatic,
AIDS, all these incurable diseases come from that.
- How would You suggest we cure these
- Can you get a thing from My
- Want lozenge, Shri Mataji?
- Yeah, in the vanity. It's too much now
I don't know how they smoke so much.
- You might be suffering from some
- and still continue to live.
- sort of Hay fever, I think, that's quite common.
- Very dangerous!
- Yes, [UNCLEAR] some Strepsil will do this
- It's only one Strepsil.
- It's alright, it's alright.
- It's alright.
- Too much talking.
- Ah,
also these three musicians had, they got it from smokers but they don't smoke at all, you see.
And then I was curing them and also smoking, I mean, is, is a mess.
We pay money to spoil our throats [SHRI MATAJI LAUGHS] but with this smoking goes away,
drugs go away - all bad habits. We become such a balanced person.
So many are wasteful habits, you see, and so many are so destructive, like this Grand Prix they have - what is the need to do that madness?
And already the people are getting so speedy, children are getting so speedy.
There are diseases, like, now a new disease which I had announced about, I had told about then AIDS also about
five, six years back - about eight years back I had told them.
- And I told about this new disease, Yuppies disease about three years back - you saw that lady had it
- Yes
where you, you become, you do everything unconsciously but when you become conscious you can't do it.
Now if you want to get up, you can walk off but if you think, "I have to walk," you can't - the conscious mind has become so weak.
- This is Yuppies disease.
- It was very interesting because it's like this
[UNCLEAR] pick that up and she will get all the weight on, her hand would shake and she put it down
- but if you just hand it to her...[UNCLEAR]
- [SHRI MATAJI LAUGHS] It's funny but I told about this
because too much of futuristic ideas, too much of speed - you see, human-beings can't bear certain speeds
and the speed is so much gone into our being that our conscious mind has become weak -
very common in America, this disease, even in London and there doctors are now treating 3-4 with sahaja yoga.
Also doctors are little bit frightened about sahaja yog
because it cures people so they think what will happen to us, to our practices - they're little worried
but there're so many patients - they need not worry at all. Only those who come to sahaja yog and get their Kundalini awakened, get all right.
Everybody is not going to be all right so they shouldn't worry that they will lose their practice.
Should we worry about the environment at all, can You help the?
No, if you get realization, you shouldn't worry about that also
because the, if you get your realization, what happens - a balance is established within you
- then you don't go into imbalances. Actually, our imbalance has brought forth this imbalance outside.
- I see.
If human-beings get balance, there won't be anything. The amount of things we create, there's no need.
And the machines are for us, we are not for the machines - we have become slaves of machines now.
There's no need to have so many machines. It should be in balance - whatever we need, that much.
They have created mountains and mountains of plastics in America - mountains.
Also here I see so many cars, you see, just lying as I don't know what you call them
and they are not reconverted into cars or something, just
- these cars which are broken down, so many cars in Australia -
- Yes [UNCLEAR]
- they should be reconverted.
- Resold
- Annh, but one sahaja yogi was saying that he's found out a method
by which he can make these toxic things into stones. I said, very good idea if you can make that
then at least the toxic fumes may get into stones, you see, and these stones can be used for anything, pavement, anything.
But he's not been given so much recognition, so far by the government - government should take it up seriously.
- I think, basically that wouldn't be much of a good idea, I guess because
- Unnh?
- toxic stones are still
Very good idea but they, they're not paying any attention that's what he told Me - this gentleman. What's his name?
- You saw him in
- [UNCLEAR]
- Annh?
- That's [UNCLEAR], is it? [UNCLEAR] Mother
- The, the toxins were actually burned off and then it just
- Destroyed the toxins
- [UNCLEAR] Yeah
- Yeah, so there's no, there's no mention [UNCLEAR]
- [UNCLEAR]
[UNCLEAR] burning of the toxins so end up with a type of a hard substance like a stone.
Also they have discovered this Solar energy business but is not so easily available to people
Solar energy should be much more easily available. It's so expensive to install
that nobody in India wants to use it - we have so much of Solar energy. If they could make it cheaper, we won't have any energy problem in our country.
- It's the working a lot on [UNCLEAR - MATERIAL?] Shri Mataji.
- Yeah
- We've got a whole town, now in New South Wales that is Solar power.
- It's true but, you see, you can afford to pay so much - not, Indians can't
- Still experimenting
-  Still experimenting
- I think, a few companies also try to slow up the research because they lose money
- through allowing Solar power to get to home
- I believe that BP, British Petroleum is it
- Umm?
- are the leaders in Solar Power these days and Australia has quite a significant
- Really?
- one of the topmost firms.
- But it should go to the poor countries, you see, where there is so much of Sun. It can solve their problem.
It should be available at a price that they can afford. I tried to make it for our house 'Pratishthan'
but it costs you more than having about 30 heaters in the house -
so I mean, nobody would do it.
Now they still haven't really got a good Solar collector - they're still trying to find one.
That's, that's I was saying so - they haven't got something like that.
- Yes, it's very inefficient.
- It could be liquidified, you see, supposing somehow or other.
If you can bring it to the liquid state then it can be used much better.
This, this research must come from Australia, must come because they have lot of Solar energy here.
Otherwise, in England they don't have - I mean, the Western countries don't have much of Solar energy except for your country.
And they should go into it deeply and they can work it out. I think, just they should think about it - they can help a lot.
Instead of giving money to poor countries, better give them such inventions.
- Hmm.
- Yeah, they don't seem to utilize the money in the right way [UNCLEAR]
- [SHRI MATAJI LAUGHS]
It's quite a waste [SHRI MATAJI LAUGHS]
If they stop elections, it will be a good idea, for sometime [SHRI MATAJI LAUGHS]
Today I was reading newspaper, there's nothing but elections. I said, "What about some news about other people?" Nothing - it's all election, election, election.
- Yeah, I guess I'll have to wait until [UNCLEAR]
- Beg pardon?
- Next week or week after
- Next week, ah. That's My birthday.
- [ SHRI MATAJI LAUGHS] Tomorrow?
- Annh?
- Tomorrow?
- That's it, tomorrow.
- Let's see.
- Yeah, I, I guess we have enough
- It will help young people very much
- Hmm
- Because they can be saved from drugs, that's the point is and it's a big attack.
I'm told now that area of Columbia is getting
nervous and they're going towards Spain, quite a lot, and from Spain is diverted directly to Australia.
So you're under attack and when it comes here, I mean, you can't stop it.
England is of course is quite into it, no doubt - in a very bad shape. They have put the military now to stop it
but they can't. They have so many harbours, so many things, it's very difficult. Because Amsterdam uh.. they have
allowed it - it's a legal thing in Amsterdam. So it comes to Amsterdam and from there London is so close, you know, you can come by so many ways.
- Yes.
- That's a very dangerous, dangerous thing they have done in Amsterdam - is to allow it.
The young people are so susceptible for it because there it is no solution.
Because you are under tensions, you see, and you want to escape. You want to escape reality because reality as you see
is so, so
full of tensions and full of worries and full of sort of a fear, so to escape that
people take to it but if they come to sahaja yoga, they know that reality is beautiful - then they don't have to escape anything.
So many have been saved in England, he knows very well, out of drugs, so many.
But sahaja yoga must be accepted by governments, then only it will work out faster.
The government is very slow. They have to have, a regular
sort of an organization which should come to you with lots of advertisements and money and this - that we don't do.
- That's the only problem.
- I have a daughter who stopped using heroin in three weeks
- Stopped.
- Smoking they stop overnight, so many
There was only one girl who said, "Mother, still I smoke little bit. " The other day she gave up -  now she's alright.
- [SHRI MATAJI LAUGHS]
- [LAUGHS] She's had a big problem for that.
- You don't have to say prohibition or anything - just.
They don't also drink at all - they're very happy, healthy, nothing wrong with them. They don't even drink.
Imagine in England people have stopped drinking - can you believe it? Where the pubs open at 6 0' clock in the morning.
Yeah, I think, there are a few places in Canberra and Sydney open pretty early too.
- Beg your pardon?
- I think, there's a few places around Australia that open pretty early too.
But it happens automatically, you don't have to tell yourself or anything - just happens.
You just become a different personality, it just happens to you. Nothing can dominate you. Becomes
- You don't do it yourself
- Beg your pardon?
- it just happens
- Just happens.
You become like that, like a saint, you see. You just don't drink, you don't like it - finished.
- Do You consider Yourself a saint?
- Do You?
-  Do You consider Yourself a saint?
- I don't know, I don't want to put Myself into any category
- [UNCLEAR] Yes.
- Into any category whatsoever.
- Because, you see, when you tell about Yourself, is dangerous these days.
- Hmm
Even before, like Christ said the greatest truth that He was the Son of God - no doubt about it - but they crucified Him.
- So I want to live for some time.
- So, You're quite happy with Your followers calling You saint?
- Beg your pardon?
You're quite happy with Your followers considering that You like considering and
- explained by the people that You are saint?
- I don't say that. These people call Me saint, everything
- Yeah.
I don't say anything about Myself because I say, "You come to sahaja yog, get your light and know Me." Is better.
- I think perhaps, the answer to your question, lies in another question, "What is a saint?"
- Yeah, that's true.
- He asked?
- Now what is a saint Shri Mataji?
- I mean what is a saint - is The One who is, who is connected with the Divine, is the saint.
- Hmm
- Simple thing as that.
- That I am but I am much more than that.
- Hmm. What is Your relationship with God?
- With whom?
- With God?
- Gandhi?
- With God [SHRI MATAJI LAUGHS]
- What is Your relationship?
- Quite close [EVERYONE LAUGHS] Quite close
but it's better that people should find it out after getting the light, so they believe in it.
No use, just now, saying, "I'm this, I'm that," is not proper because human-beings don't like it - their ego gets challenged.
- Why You? They also ask Me, "Why You should give realization?" I said, "You better do it, I'll retire. Very good!" If you can do it, well do it.
- Yeah.
So it's, that's why it's better to be on the quiet - let them find out. Gradually they do find out.
- And do You see some successor following You when You die or?
- Successor?
- Yeah, do You have a successor?
- No, no, not yet. That's all spontaneously we work out, I'm sure.
- [UNCLEAR]
- I don't have to do that. There's nothing like successor or that. They're all realized souls -  all of them are successors.
- I see.
- There's not one single person
That's My father's photograph - show him? He was also a realized soul.
And he was a great Nationalist who sacrificed everything for Indian freedom
and he was jailed. My mother also, she was Honors of Mathematics - she also went to jail.
- All our family sacrificed.
- This is during Your
- Beg your pardon?
- freedom
- Yeah.
- Fight for freedom.
- Then he changed his cap and everything but he was an advocate, he was a lawyer.
- Yeah.
- Yes.
- So I come from a family of that kind which was very enlightened and very sort of sacrificing,
very devoted to India, Indian struggle of life, struggle of Independence. I was with Gandhiji also from My childhood.
I met very nice people in India. Those were the days where very nice people came up
- and now as soon as we got our independence, all the selfish people are there to take seats in the Parliament
- Yeah.
- Do You have any prophecies in relation to how India will
- Not yet, but maybe later, why not?
- Not yet.
because prophecies then takes your attention to future so is best is to do your work
- and it just expands gradually.
- I see.
- Yeah, I think we
- Alright?
- Yeah.
- This talk was nice [UNCLEAR] next
He's got into thoughtless awareness himself now. You just put your hands like this, you'll get your realization, no doubt. Put your both the feet separate from each other
Just see on his head, he's got it already. Feeling the cool breeze?
- [SHRI MATAJI LAUGHS] He got it. Yeah,
- Yeah.
- that's it. What about you, just put your hands like this
You really relaxed.
You got it too, it's there and this is the cool breeze of the Holy Ghost.
Ah! It's better now
That's the silence within yourself you feel it.
- Alright, so May God bless you!
- Yes, be very interesting!
- Very nice meeting you, very nice meeting you.
- I hope You have good stay and You come again sometime.
- Alright, thank you very much
- Thank You!
- Thank you for this, thank you.
- Bye-bye.
- Shri Mataji, would You like a cup of tea?
- I think, I'll go inside first.
- I'm sure it wasn't.
[SHRI MATAJI LAUGHS]
- Namastey. Come here. He's from what country you said?
- Malaysia.
- Malaysia annh, haan.
- Thank You.
- Malaysia. Malaysia we have a very good center now and mostly Chinese, mostly Chinese are coming.
- I've not been home for thirty years.
- Yeah, really? You've been here, annh? Good!
- Thank You Shri Mataji!
You had Ubedullah as your Senator, you know that Ubedullah, who was the uh.. President of the
-  Parliament there, Mr. Ubedullah.
- Ubedullah?
- Haan, he's got his realization too
- Senator in the
- He was a Senator
- UN
- Yes and he was also uh.. President of the Parliament,
- I mean what you call that, the Chairman of the Parliament there - he got his realization
- What do You think of him?
- Umm?
- What did You?
- What do You think of him?
He's a very good man, I must say, very good man.
- Yeah, the only thing I asked is because being Malay and controlling the country where
- there're three races
- Yeah
- it's quite difficult
He knows all these problems, he knows that. He said, "The people are so ignorant here, so conditioned, " so he says, "You can't talk about it to anyone."
But the Chinese have come out - Chinese are taking to it and also some Indians but more Chinese.
But Indians which are abroad are like uprooted people and they have lost their
uh..capacity, like I say that if you take a mango tree to London, it can't produce mangoes but it can't even produce apples
that's what happens to people who get uprooted, sometimes. [ALL LAUGH]
- But yesterday some Indians got it, some from the Indian High Commission, even from Pakistan.
- Hmm.
They got their realization. Yesterday was Quite a cosmopolitan and there were some Russians there - six, seven from the Embassy.
Now they're feeling very confident, Russians - I think they'll come everywhere.
- [UNCLEAR]
- They were, they were very accessible, Shri Mataji
- Very good!
- The American Embassy was very difficult to get inside
- Ah!
You had to press buzzers and ring numbers and and you went round and round the switchboard with the telephone - we couldn't communicate.
Americans only are fond of fake gurus that's all but in, you see, the Russian ambassador
in, in Delhi, came to see Me twice.
I don't know what's gone wrong with Russians - Ego, I think too much ego.
They only like people who pamper their ego, perhaps or I don't know what they do.
So many false gurus in America, so many of them. They have witchcraft, they have all kinds of things, all kinds of things.
So violent, that country is so violent, it's a demonocracy - cannot call it a democracy.
You can't go anywhere safe, it's a very dangerous place and people shoot you for nothing - it's
a very bad place, America now. And it was very nice because when I went there first time,
in '69 I went there - it was a very clean, nice place but now you find it's so dirty and
- so different. It's changed so much in this twenty years time, very much.
- Hmm.
No thirty years, isn't it, '69 means, oh - yes.
- '69 is twenty years
- Twenty years.
Even London. I must say uh.. London was very bad
- and now it's coming up back.
- All fish back in the river?
- Yes,
- that sort of thing
- back in the river fish. Now London is improving very much.
But it had gone down so badly. First I went in '65, then it was good
but the hippies things has started and by the time it was '70, I think, it was at the
peak of the hippy era, where I picked up seven hippies.[SHRI MATAJI LAUGHS]
But now, people are getting sensible, sensible but
- Not Mrs. Thatcher though
- Annh?
- Not Mrs. Thatcher
- Oh! [EVERYONE LAUGHS] I don't know how they like her, she's terrible!
She bought all those conventional armament. I always used to say, "Why's she buying, they'll be useless,"
and now the NATO has said that, "We'll not allow these things to work out, these short range missiles." And
she's spent all the national money in that, so all this national money.
She wouldn't have the children [UNCLEAR] , she wouldn't have many public services like buses and all that
and national money was spent in buying those missiles and now NATO has said that it won't be used.
They said in the newspaper here Mother that the iron lady is starting to go rusty. [SHRI MATAJI LAUGHS]
I don't know, I met her many a times but on the table she would ask Me,
"Why Indians are so nice, they're not so violent,
Pakistanis are much more violent, why Muslims are more violent, " or she would ask, "How do You solve Your family problems,
why don't You have divorces, " all these questions she asked Me so I thought, she's uh.. trying to sort of
praise the family life and she did also, she did
but you see, just talking about it doesn't work out, you have to do something about it
I think, she might learn a lesson, might be also. She has to be more humane and understand
but the way she has allowed also another thing, is to take away as much money as you like, from England
cash, you can take, so all these black marketeers are sending their money out and
this was very dangerous to do. Formerly, we could only take twenty-five pounds cash with us.
Everything had to be in traveller's cheques but now anybody can take out any, as much as you like, cash money bags full.
- this is another thing she did a wrong thing so all the money is now going out of London.
One or two things she's really committed big mistakes.
All right, May God bless you!
- Alright, you take this.
- Shawl [UNCLEAR]
- Thank you very much
- [UNCLEAR]
- Now you meet these people and master it yourself
It will help you very much in your radio programs also because you'll emit vibrations.
These communications are so helpful, you see, this is God has sent because you'll emit your vibrations through it, it spreads all over.